[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>LISA GARR: Hi.
I'm.
Lisa Garr, host of
"Gaiam Inspirations."
Now is the time to wake up
our true meaning of life.
This is the soul shift
that my guest today
talks about in her latest
book called "Soul Shifts."
Barbara DeAngelis is one of
the most influential teachers
of our time in the field
of personal development.
And for 25 years, she has
reached tens of millions
of people throughout the world.
She has 14 bestselling
books to her credit,
selling over 10 million copies.
So great to have you here today.
Thank you so much
for being here.
>>BARBARA DEANGELIS: I am
so thrilled to be here.
So thrilled to be with such a
conscious audience watching us,
so that we can have a soul
shifting journey together.
>>LISA: Soul shifting
conversation.
Absolutely.
So first of all, did it take
you a while to write this book?
Because it seems like it has
so much of your work in it,
yet it takes people to a whole
other level at the same time.
>>DEANGELIS: It does.
It's my 15th book.
>>LISA: Wow.
>>DEANGELIS: And
it's really there
to not just alchemize
everything and put it together,
but to be a practical handbook,
a manual for people for what
I call practical spirituality.
I've written a lot of
books about spirituality,
about relationships.
But I wanted to write a
guidebook, in a sense,
so that people
could have a manual.
What do you do?
It's one thing to say, I want
to grow, I want to shift,
I want to think positive.
But how do you do
that day by day?
All of us have our soul shifts
and our great high moments,
when maybe we're
meditating, or we're
doing yoga, or
watching your program,
listening to your
great radio show.
And then what
happens afterwards?
Suddenly, we're with
the person we love.
Suddenly, we're at work.
Where does that
consciousness go?
It's not enough to have
a taste of something.
How do you integrate it?
So I wrote "Soul Shifts"
because I really do
believe-- and I think you and
I have talked about this--
that we're in a very
powerful, accelerated time
of transformation,
where a lot of people
are having what I call
the divine discomfort.
They've achieved a lot.
They understand a lot.
There's something missing.
There's a restlessness
to go faster.
I believe that that is something
calling to us to truly shift,
and to help other people shift.
Since I've been doing
that for decades,
I really felt it was
my time to do that.
And I waited eight years
to write "Soul Shifts,"
the longest time between books.
I've written so many books.
And it was the next
book, the next book.
Something said, stop,
go even deeper inside.
Work with my community
of people who I teach,
and get everything so distilled
that people can read the book
and get the transmission.
And the response has been
so overwhelming to me,
more than any book
I've ever written.
It debuted number one spiritual
book on Amazon and Kindle.
And people are feeling the shift
in the vibration in the book,
not just the information,
but the transformation.
And it's taken
them on a journey.
And even the people,
if they read it,
if they hear me on the radio, or
if they're watching right now,
it means you are
the soul shifters.
You are the people who are
here to really transform
everybody else.
So it is, as you
said beautifully,
it's time to wake up.
>>LISA: It is.
Well, it's not just
another book on purpose.
And yes, if you've been
on your personal journey
for a little while
now, you're done
with that type of conversation.
OK, I got my purpose, and
now I'm working my butt off
to fulfill that purpose, and
I'm losing myself in my purpose.
>>DEANGELIS: Or that there's
a collision between-- we
all have our highest.
We've all had moments
of our highest.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>DEANGELIS: And then we
have moments of our lowest.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>DEANGELIS: And then there's
everything in between.
My premise is if you
can experience yourself
the most conscious, the most
loving, the most identified
with the expanded part of
you, that means it's there.
There's nothing missing in you.
There's nothing more
people need to get.
It's not that we
need to get more,
it's that we disconnect
from that highest.
What gets in the way?
What unplugs us?
>>LISA: Or pulls us back?
>>DEANGELIS: Pulls
us back, or what I
call drifting from our highest.
And we all know what
drifting feels like.
You drift a little bit one
day, but it's not so bad.
And two weeks later,
you're depressed.
What happened?
It doesn't just happen.
And the premise of
"Soul Shifts" is
you don't have to wait for a
traumatic event, or an a-ha,
or a trip to Peru, or whatever
it is to have a soul shift.
You can have that any moment if
you understand the principles.
That's what the readers
have been experiencing.
>>LISA: And you can have many.
That's why it's plural.
>>DEANGELIS: That's why
it's-- it's not one thing.
It's plural, and you can have
many in a day, in a moment.
One practice that
I teach, you can
shift in a second out of a
very contracted state to a more
expanded state, and
that's what's so powerful.
And it's been so wonderful
for me because, as you know,
it's one thing to
teach something,
to be able to write it,
to practice it yourself.
But when somebody you've
never heard of from Alaska,
or Italy, or Japan is
writing me, saying I'm
on chapter three, and I
completely just rearranged
my understanding of myself.
I just let go of something
I've carried for 25 years.
I am shifting.
My relationship with
my kids is shifting.
And I don't even
understand why yet.
Then, I know that I've
done good service.
>>LISA: So this definitely
happens in my life as well.
And I host a radio show every
day around transformation,
so that's my chance
every single day
to get back into that space.
But the interesting thing is
that every single day, I have
to get back into that space.
And this is a familiar
conversation with you,
isn't it?
So I really paid
attention to the things
that pull me off that track.
And they tend to be
unconscious conversations.
>>DEANGELIS: Correct.
>>LISA: Not just mundane
bills, and things like that.
>>DEANGELIS: No.
>>LISA: It's things that
are hurtful, or go wrong,
or that people say, or
that aren't working.
And those tend to
pull me off my track.
>>DEANGELIS: They pull
you off your track
because they're what I
call a disappointment
and disconnection in spirit.
And I want to say
something really deeply
and meaningful for you, and
really, for everybody watching.
Because as I said,
if you're watching,
you are part of the
cosmic advance team,
and that means we're
here to do something.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>DEANGELIS: One of
the deepest wounds
people on a spiritual
path have-- and you
can be in a spiritual path
whether you've done it
for 45 years like I have, or
you just started recently,
and you just discovered this TV
program-- is facing the reality
of this world as it is.
The heartbreak of
the insensitivity.
The heartbreak of the world.
The heartbreak of
the unconsciousness.
Many people who grew up,
and they were seekers,
but they didn't know
what the word meant,
had a hard childhood even,
or a hard adolescence,
because they thought,
what's wrong with the world?
It's screwed up.
Why are people so mean?
And it can create depression.
It can create a feeling of,
I don't want to do this.
It can create coldness
or detachment,
because there's
the pain of saying,
I know it can be different.
I seem to almost remember
it's supposed to be different.
Why is it like this?
This goes even more personally
when we're with people.
We love somebody.
We have a friend.
We have an employee.
And we see the highest in them.
Spiritual people tend to
see the highest in others.
>>LISA: Yes, always.
>>DEANGELIS: And when
that person isn't holding
that vision of themself,
and they disappoint us,
it's not just they
we're upset with them,
it's that pain of humanity.
Why can't people rise up?
So there's a cosmic heartbreak
that I think a lot of seekers
are feeling.
And I think for
you when you say,
stuff happens in
our conversations,
disappointment, there's that
feeling inside not of grief,
but it's not just about that
day, it's about the whole deal.
>>LISA: I absolutely know
people can relate to this.
Absolutely.
Because it's those things that
knock us off our path-- I mean,
you can go to a great weekend,
or have a great session,
or be in just a really
fantastic space,
and it doesn't take much
to knock us off our path.
But that shouldn't be the case.
>>DEANGELIS: It shouldn't be.
And that's exactly why
I wrote "Soul Shifts."
Because transformation
isn't an experience.
It's a state.
An experience is, I felt great
for those two hours or that
three days at that retreat.
That's an experience.
A state means your
consciousness has shifted,
and things may
buffet it, but you're
anchored to something
that nothing and no one
can take away from you.
That's freedom.
>>LISA: OK.
I got it.
So it's a state shift
that's permanent.
>>DEANGELIS: It's permanent
as we practice it more.
It's like taking
something and infusing it,
and then it washes
out infusing it.
But at some point,
it doesn't go away.
And it's a choice.
One of the "Soul
Shifts" practices
that I love the most, it's so
simple, is when we're feeling
off, depressed, upset,
angry, irritable,
is to just ask a simple
question: what am I
choosing in this moment?
What am I choosing to do?
I'm choosing to
blame my husband.
I'm choosing to be pissed off.
I'm choosing to feel
sorry for myself.
To actually, what
I'm choosing, meaning
it's not happening to me.
And then a second
question, what's
a more enlightened choice
I can make right now?
I can have compassion
for that person.
Now, it's not about
your thoughts.
Just the thought, what
am I choosing instantly
pulls us out of the
feeling of being a victim.
What is a more
enlightened choice?
The minute we say
enlightened choice,
our highest in our brain,
literally our brain,
get activated.
And our file on enlightened
choices opens up.
It's like Google in your brain.
So it says here's 25
million enlightened choices
that you already know because
you actually are that being.
The minute we say it,
we've already shifted.
And it's unbelievable
how that works.
And people can try
that as a simple thing
this week, when you're
feeling off at all.
>>LISA: You can
just ask yourself,
what choice am I making here?
>>DEANGELIS: What am I making?
And at first, I'm
not doing anything.
He's doing it.
But you know, I'm choosing
to-- whatever it is,
and to keep asking.
You can write them down.
And then say, is there another,
more enlightened choice?
And you will shift
in that moment
in so many profound ways.
>>LISA: Is that what you talk
about in the book about soul
accomplishments?
Is that what little soul
accomplishments are?
They can happen collectively,
on a little moment
to moment basis?
Or big basis?
We could do a lot of them?
>>DEANGELIS: To me, one of
the most important parts
of the book is about
soul accomplishments.
All of us have goals every day.
Everyone watching has a goal.
Goals for your relationship.
Goals for your health.
Goals of your business.
And your to-do list, and
then your everyday chores
you have to do.
And usually, the way we evaluate
ourselves on a daily basis
is, how much did I get done,
or did I achieve a goal?
Did I sign up somebody?
Did I sell something
to somebody?
Did I whatever it is?
Did I help somebody get in a
good mood who's in my life?
And they're all on the outside.
We can't control most of those.
So if someone says,
how was your day,
we usually look at how
many of the external things
went right or wrong, and
we say good day, bad day,
whatever it is.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>DEANGELIS: To make the
soul shift with this means
to understand that those
accomplishments will not
stick with you.
Soul accomplishments is
a phrase I came up with.
And that's those things where
we are rising to our highest.
They're the accomplishments
that will really mean something.
They have value.
They polish our diamond
of our consciousness.
They're the things we take away
with us at the end of our life.
They're the things
that really become
part of our soul, our radiance,
and give us true self-esteem
and true confidence.
So in the case you
just said, today,
instead of beating myself
up about a mistake,
I found a way to
be compassionate.
Today, instead of feeling
really disappointed in somebody,
I allowed myself
to be disappointed
and to not pull away from them
and shut off, or punish them
for it.
Soul accomplishments are
internal, invisible things
we do.
It's not, I ate well
today, I went to the gym.
That's not what
I'm talking about.
I'm talking about inner
shifts, where I basically
rose to my highest.
If you make a list of
soul accomplishments,
if you start looking
for them every day,
actually look for
them-- all right today,
I'm going to look for my soul
accomplishments in each moment.
>>LISA: I made this choice
instead of this one.
>>DEANGELIS: Totally shift you.
And it shifts the
way you identify.
I call this a shift
in identification
from the external mastery
to internal mastery.
Most of us are into
management, managing our life,
managing our thoughts,
managing people, controlling.
And when things don't work
that way, we feel bad.
Mastery is about the inside.
So the shift that I talk
about in one of the chapters
is how to shift from
managing everything
all the time to mastery.
Mastery, you can control.
>>LISA: So the management
causes that overwhelm,
that exhaustion, doesn't it?
>>DEANGELIS: It causes
overwhelming exhaustion
because it is doomed to fail.
It's doomed to fail.
>>LISA: So what
can we do instead?
Say, for instance,
something goes wrong,
something gets canceled,
you're disappointed.
You're let down.
Can you actually start
to use some of the magic
during that time to
less exhaust yourself?
Am I asking this the right way?
So say you get disappointed
about something.
That there was just a
flat out shut door, no.
Can you lift yourself
into that place
of looking at the
possibilities in order
to take the stress
of that moment off?
>>DEANGELIS: The
stress at that moment
comes from our
rigidity of saying,
this is supposed to
be a certain way.
How do you know-- one of my
favorite things in the book
is in the beginning
chapters, where
I talk about what looks like
a wall, and it's a door.
>>LISA: Talk to me about that.
>>DEANGELIS: It's a
great dream I had.
It's a powerful dream.
And I don't want to ruin it,
because people write me and say
they cried when they read.
But it's about climbing up, and
thinking that there's a wall,
and you can't climb over it,
and suddenly realizing that
it's actually not a wall.
There's a tiny key, and
there's a tiny door.
And so you said the no.
Something slams in your face.
Those things happen,
but they're doorways.
They're gateways.
They're not there to tell
us something is wrong.
They're there to redirect us.
They're there to teach us
something, show us something.
And what looks like
a no to one thing
is going to be yes
to something else.
Understanding that life
isn't about that rigidity,
it's either working or
not, closed or opened,
having a more expanded
view allows us to say,
this was disappointing.
I don't like what happened.
And again, what is the
highest thought about this?
What is another choice I
could make in this moment?
>>LISA: Look for the
keyhole, look for the door.
>>DEANGELIS: What is
another choice I can make?
I call that the third door.
Because most of us are,
it worked or it didn't.
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>DEANGELIS: That's
not really true.
Now in hindsight, we can,
oh yes, that happened to me,
and it was bad, but it was the
best thing that ever happened.
>>LISA: It's always
in hindsight.
>>DEANGELIS: We can be
enlightened in hindsight.
We're very enlightened looking
backwards onto our life,
aren't we?
>>LISA: We are.
>>DEANGELIS: It's how do we
bring that into the moment?
And again, that's what the soul
shifts practices are about.
Because it's not about sounding
smart, collecting revelations,
collecting spiritual
experiences.
It's grounding it, and
making choice after choice.
How do I show up in my
highest under all conditions?
>>LISA: Let's take
a look at this video
where Barbara's talking
about her superhero.
Take a look.
>>DEANGELIS: My
real life superhero
is my first
spiritual teacher who
I met when I was 18 years old,
and taught me how to meditate.
Taught me about what's inside,
and not just what's outside.
I began my career that I'm
well-known for now in my 30's.
And from the time
I was 18 until 30,
I was in a very deep inner path.
And this was back in
the 1960s and '70s,
when these things weren't really
popular like they are now.
So he was my superhero,
because he taught me
to go inside deep, deep, deep.
And then when I
came out, it would
be coming from a place of
power, a place of alignment,
a place of strength.
And when I started my
career later on in life,
it was like an arrow
that was shot and hit,
because I had gone very deep
first, and then very far out.
That made him a superhero
to me, because he
taught me to have the
superpowers of finding
the power within myself.
Every day, one of the things
that I do that I've actually
written about in my
new book "Soul Shifts"
is acknowledge and
appreciate what
I call soul accomplishments.
Each day, usually at the
end of the day, we think,
what did I get done on my to-do
, list did I make any deals,
did I make money, did I finish
the phone calls I should make?
And those things are important,
but the real accomplishments
that stay with us are what
I call soul accomplishments.
Soul accomplishments
are invisible.
Did I motivate myself
past my fear today?
Did I forgive somebody
instead of just
being impatient with them?
Did I honor myself for things
I did instead of thinking,
but here's five
things I didn't do?
Soul accomplishments are the
things that will stay with us.
We'll take them with us
at the end of our life.
They are what carves us and
polishes us as a human being.
And they're actually the
only ones that really matter.
So one of the things I
want to offer everybody
is instead of judging yourself
for what you have or haven't
accomplished on the
outside, to make sure also
to honor your soul
accomplishments every day.
And it could have
just been calling up
somebody you know is suffering,
or stopping for a moment
and being able to feel
grateful for your dog,
or taking a little extra moment
with one of your children.
Those soul
accomplishments are what
will fill you with a kind of a
peace that nothing and no one
can ever take away from you.
I think a lot about how I
would like to be remembered,
because I've lost a lot
of people close to me
in the last few years.
My parents, friends, my
beloved animal companions.
And really, understand
that life is
so precarious and so fleeting.
I live every day in
a way that I hope
I will feel at the end of the
day I've given as much love
as possible to
myself, to others,
I've created upliftment
wherever I go.
I've made a difference
not because, again,
of what I've
achieved, but because
of how I've showed up
vibrationally as a person.
So I'd like to be remembered
for my acts of love,
my acts of compassion, and the
tremendous ability that I've
had to be able to bring
out love in others,
to create love in others,
to create light in others
like the way we think
about a sunny day,
or the way we think
about a beautiful place.
Something that created
upliftment, which
means that we were lifted up.
My life's been about
lifting people.
And I want to be remembered
for lifting everybody up,
so that they can continue
to lift others up,
and it passes on,
and on, and on.
And this is how we
change the world.
A lot of us think
about the legacy
we're going to leave
at the end of our life.
What will we have
accomplished, what
will people remember us for?
Every day, we leave a legacy.
So what I invite all
superheroes to do
is think, what's the legacy
I want to leave today?
Not at the end of
my life but today.
Did I leave for love?
Did I leave more vision?
Did I leave more hope?
To actually think that
each day is a legacy day,
and to think about at
the end of that day,
the imprint you will
have made on the world.
What will it have been?
Will it be better because of how
you loved, how you showed up,
how you communicated?
Everyone of us can change
the world every single day,
if we realize we are
leaving a legacy,
whether we realize it or not.
>>LISA: So you took a long
time on your spiritual journey,
like from a very young
age, when you were 18.
What inspired you to start
journeying at 18 looking for
and finding spiritual teachers?
Most 18-year-olds
are not doing that.
>>DEANGELIS: My
cosmic alarm clock
went off, as I talk about in
the beginning in the book.
And there was so many
readers writing me
and saying, that's it.
My cosmic alarm clock just
went off reading this.
The cosmic alarm clock,
something inside of us
that suddenly
begins to instill us
with the desire to ask what
I call the sacred questions.
Most people's questions are,
how do I find a boyfriend?
What am I going to do?
Where are we going?
How much money?
And as we get older, our
questions get more mature.
Seekers have
different questions.
Who am I?
What am I doing here?
What am I supposed to do?
I feel like I'm supposed
to contribute something,
but I'm not sure what it is.
Can I still contribute
when I'm not perfect?
See, these are all-- aren't
these the questions that
have been in your heart?
>>LISA: Yes.
Yes.
>>DEANGELIS: Am I a fraud
if I'm teaching something
I believe in, and
yet I had a bad day?
These are the
questions of seekers.
I had these questions
at a very early age,
and I think anyone
watching this,
your cosmic alarm
clock has gone off.
And most people push the snooze
button and go back to sleep.
But when you wake up, you
can't go back to sleep.
And you know how
when we wake up,
if you've been sleeping
or taking an nap,
or you fell asleep, you go,
oh my god, what time is it?
I don't remember anything.
>>LISA: What day is it?
Yeah.
>>DEANGELIS: The thing
about being asleep
is we don't know we're asleep.
The thing about being
unconscious in life
is we don't know we
were unconscious.
We don't know we
were having patterns.
We don't know we were
carrying emotional baggage.
We just think we're normal,
until we start to awaken.
And we start to
awaken, whether it's
reading, or coming to
a seminar like mine,
or watching your show, all of
a sudden the first thing that
happens when we awaken
is we go into shock.
>>LISA: Out of regret?
>>DEANGELIS: Because
we're seeing the things
we hadn't seen.
And this is something
no one else talks about.
>>LISA: And you can't go back.
>>DEANGELIS: People
think, oh, I'm
gong to start working
on myself, and I'm just
going to feel better
every single day.
And the truth is when you turn
the light on in a room that's
been dark, you look and
you see all those things
that you haven't
noticed that have
been stuffed under the bed.
This is a symptom of awakening.
And this is what I talk a
lot about in "Soul Shifts,"
symptoms of transformation
that most people are thinking
are symptoms that
something's wrong with them.
>>LISA: So people stop there.
>>DEANGELIS: They stop, or
they think, I'm just depressed,
or why am I so impatient
with everything?
It's because of the
divine discomfort.
So for me going back
to your question,
I was really unhappy
early adolescent,
because I felt like a
stranger in a strange land.
I didn't relate to anything.
I was asking these questions.
There was no personal
growth movement.
There was no GaiamTV.
There was no
nothing at the time.
Nothing.
There was psychiatry.
And I didn't know
anyone like me.
And I started reading
existential French literature
and poetry, and trying
to find answers.
And I went to my
first week of college,
and I saw a poster at
University of Wisconsin.
And it said, "Learn
to meditate."
I didn't know what
meditation was.
There was no popular
meditation then.
And there was a picture
of a beautiful Indian man,
who happened to be
Maharishi Mahesh Yogi.
And the minute I saw it, I
went, I don't know what this is,
but I recognize this.
Something about
this is familiar.
I went to the lecture,
and I started my--
and that was my
cosmic alarm clock.
And as soon as I began
the inner journey, I went,
this is the direction I
was supposed to go in.
And it's true.
I taught meditation and did
very deep spiritual work
for years in seclusion.
And I didn't start my
career, this career,
until I was 32 years old.
>>LISA: Tell me about that.
I mean, have you
ever thought back,
or I'm sure journeyed back into
a past life through regression,
and realized that you were
alongside those teachers,
or in that asheron?
>>DEANGELIS: Yes.
>>LISA: Yes, yes.
>>DEANGELIS: I'm
a very old soul.
And I remember a lot.
And I think a lot of
us-- because it's not
so much interesting about me.
But I think a lot of us
remember the emotional energy
without the content.
This is one of the things
I help people a lot with.
Somebody feels, I'd like
to do more for the world,
but I'm afraid people
will make fun of me.
Where's that coming from?
Many times it's coming from
having been persecuted,
having done it wrong,
having made mistakes,
and so we don't trust
ourselves again.
There's so much that's in there
that is programming our life
and limiting us.
And so we have those collisions.
One part of us are
saying, go do this,
and the other part's
saying, no, don't do it.
That collision is important
to investigate, to look at,
to work with the techniques in
"Soul Shifts" and understand,
something's trying to birth.
And it's us.
And it's our purpose.
And it's our assignment
to the world.
We're here to do something.
And everybody-- and I
really want to say this,
because people can look at you,
they can look at me and say,
wow, you're making a difference.
I don't know have a show.
I didn't write a book.
Every single person
watching makes
a difference every single day.
You don't have to have
a business card that
says you're a teacher.
We are all making a
vibrational difference,
whether we believe it or not.
Every thought, every
way we look at people,
the way we walk
through the world,
we don't have to say
a word, and we're
broadcasting energies out.
So the most important
difference everybody
can make every day is to show
up with the highest vibration
possible.
When we do that, we're
just a walking blessing.
And that means doing
whatever we can
to clean up our own emotional
and spiritual vibration.
And that itself will
be such a contribution.
And we all know that.
You meet somebody, two
seconds, I don't like them.
They haven't said a word.
>>LISA: Or vice versa.
>>DEANGELIS: Or I just want
to be near their energy.
What is that?
Everyone can think, don't
you want to be the person,
people say, I want to
be near your energy.
That means getting
yourself aligned inside,
so that there's inner harmony,
so that you don't have
a bunch of-- I call it our
emotional asteroid belt,
with all kinds of junk that
people have to get through.
That we are living in an
inner, peaceful planet
inside of ourselves.
So people want to come onto our
planet, they want to hire us,
they want to be near us.
As opposed to--
>>LISA: And we can make
conscious choices too,
with the food that we
buy, and the food that we
put in our bodies, and the
clothes that we choose to wear.
And we can go
through all of that
and make a difference in
the world in small ways,
not necessarily in--
>>DEANGELIS: We can.
But to me, again, I'm
going beyond that.
I'm talking really about
the internal shifts.
Because yes, we all
can do things every day
to make a difference.
And you smile at someone.
I'm talking about consciousness.
How we actually
show up, so that we
become a vibrational blessing.
There's a word in
Sanskrit, darsana.
Darsana means literally sight.
The divine sight.
It's used how you experience
a great being, like the Dalai
Lama, a great Indian Saint.
And they say you
have the darsana of.
It means in the presence
of a high being.
They have so much light,
such a vibration of peace,
that you don't have to
hear them talk even.
You just sit near them.
People in India will go
for thousands of miles
to have quote, "the
darsana of the saint,
or to go just get the blessing.
That's what they mean.
All of us are giving people
our darsana in a way.
Every time, we're
either blessing people
and uplifting them, or
we're creating agitation,
even if we don't talk.
So that's like, oh my god, now
I have even more responsibility.
I thought if I didn't say
anything, no one felt it.
But of course, they do.
So I'm talking about, how
do we shift our vibration,
so that we can literally
vibrate, broadcast out,
the highest energy all the time.
>>LISA: So we can just do
that with our frequency?
We can just do that
with being linked.
>>DEANGELIS: We
can't just do it.
A We can't just do it.
This is what "Soul
Shifts" talks about.
What creates our
vibrational frequency?
It thoughts.
Its feelings.
It's old things we
haven't let go of.
It's choices we're making.
It's inner battles that
we're having with ourselves.
When we shift that frequency--
scientists measure this
all the time-- then we are
literally broadcasting out.
Because we're just
vibrating matter.
Physics tells us this.
We may look like we're-- I
say we're frozen consciousness
Popsicles.
Because consciousness,
when it gets more frozen,
or matter when it gets more
dense, gets slowed down,
gets to be something we can see.
When it's sped up,
it's invisible.
So right now, this is
matter, we just can't see it.
So we're very dense
consciousness.
Very dense matter
that we say is solid.
So to change, we have to change
at the vibrational level.
>>LISA: And then,
we can take that,
and we can emanate it
out into that field?
>>DEANGELIS: We
don't emanate it out.
It emanates out.
Right now, we're
all vibrating out.
The simplest way to
understand it is what we said.
Somebody walks into a room,
you go, I don't know why,
but I just get tense around
them, or I like them,
or they seem right,
but I don't trust them.
They haven't said a word.
But we all really
are broadcasting.
I call it the soundtrack of
our soul in "Soul Shifts."
Kind of when you watch a movie,
there's the scene that you see,
then there's the soundtrack.
So let's say you're
watching "Avatar,"
or you're watching whatever.
Some movie that's romantic.
And you can see the actors,
and they're kissing.
But what if the background
music was scary, or angry,
or cartoons.
You'd think, they're kissing,
but the music doesn't match.
The music is vibration.
And that vibration says,
this is an emotional moment,
or this is a scary moment.
Or this is an exciting moment.
We all have the soundtrack
playing vibrationally
behind us.
It's almost like you can
imagine, what's the song?
So we could be going, oh,
hello, I'm motivational person.
But behind us, we could
have scary music, our fear.
You're not going to do it.
Like "Jaws."
So we're there going, I'm
going to help enlighten you,
or you're going to eat better.
Whatever it is.
But behind us,
there's this music.
People feel it.
Exactly.
Or we could have a message about
the fact that we are loving,
but behind us, we have very
angry music from energy
that we haven't cleared.
So they're going,
I love everyone.
But there's some
sharpness to it.
People pick this up.
If you think about it,
you'll go, oh my god,
I know people like that.
That person, I was
impressed when I met them,
because I've heard of them.
But they had a
soundtrack that didn't
match what they were saying.
>>LISA: That's interesting.
>>DEANGELIS: We all
have a soundtrack.
So I talk about what's the
soundtrack of your soul.
There's some great techniques in
"Soul Shifts" to find that out.
People go, oh my
god, my soundtrack
has been the Apocalypse,
except that I'm there going,
everybody should believe in God.
So that's what I mean about
vibrational transformation.
Where does that come from?
I call that our
vibrational heritance?
No one has talked
about these things.
I created them.
>>LISA: I love it.
Yes.
>>DEANGELIS: They're
really very practical ways.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>DEANGELIS: I'm known for
taking-- Deepak Chopra always
says, I take the complex
and make it simple.
And I'm taking these things
that you might think, oh,
these are esoteric.
They're not.
They're so basic the
way I explain them.
You know, I get
letters from people,
it's their first
transformational book
they've read.
>>LISA: Wow.
Great.
>>DEANGELIS: And they said, I
don't like any of this stuff.
This, that.
they.
Totally get it.
>>LISA: Because it's practical.
>>DEANGELIS: Yes.
And people who've been
doing this for a long time.
And they are saying, this is
integrating so much for me.
>>LISA: So the soundtrack.
I want to go back to the
vibrational transformation--
>>DEANGELIS: I
know you like that.
>>LISA: I do.
Because it's so true.
It has to do with people's
authenticity as well.
So, being authentic
with who you're being.
So say, for example, you
do find that you've got
the "Jaws" soundtrack going
on, and you're talking
about something different.
How do you align the two?
How do you get those two--
>>DEANGELIS: You
don't align them.
You have to shift.
You can't align them,
because your fear
and your positive
message are dissonant.
They're not going
to be in alignment.
This is why a lot of people get
nervous speaking, by the way.
There's no such thing as
really fear of speaking.
It's that what happens when
we speak is, I'm here saying,
I'm going to teach you today
about drinking green drinks,
or whatever it is.
And we have a twin who comes
on the stage with us, who's
there the entire time.
Maybe the twin's there
with a little checkbook
and then going, uh-huh,
that sounded stupid.
All right.
Let's see.
No one laughed at that joke.
OK.
So we're talking, but
we're feeling the judge.
Or our mother's on stage, or
our ex-husband's on stage.
When I teach people
about speaking,
I teach how many people
are with you in the room
when you're talking, or
when you're doing anything,
or when you're having
a conversation.
Those are all pieces of us
that need healing and need
alignment.
And these are just
the kind of-- I
mean, they're such great
analogies because you go,
oh my god, it's true.
There's ten of me.
Or there's five of me
in a job interview.
Or I'm on a date, and my every
ex is there with me in bed,
or whatever it is.
So this is what I
mean about shifting.
We can't do it by
thinking positively.
I'm talking about shifting
from positive thinking
to positive vibrating.
Actually doing the
work, the real work.
Understanding more about
yourself is not transformation.
It's the beginning.
>>LISA: It's the first step.
>>DEANGELIS: It's revelation.
Revelation is not.
Transformation it would be
like saying, oh my god, water.
If I want to transform the
water, I have to freeze it,
I have to vaporize it.
So oh my god, I'm
afraid of everybody.
Oh my god, I know
I'm a divine being.
That's not transformation.
It's the work.
It's baking the cake.
My favorite analogy in the book.
Not collecting the
ingredients and going,
this will make a cake.
But it's not a cake yet.
Baking.
How do we bake?
That's the process of making
these choices in each moment,
shifting.
And very quickly,
we are vibrating
at such a different level.
It takes one second to
shift our vibration.
Even right now.
>>LISA: That's what I
was going to ask you.
>>DEANGELIS: Everything
in the universe
either creates expansion
or contraction.
Every thought, everything we
see, every TV show, everything.
>>LISA: So it goes
back to the choices.
>>DEANGELIS: So to say
what contracts me--
it's worth it just to get
"Soul Shifts" for that chapter.
What contracts me?
What expands me?
Who contracts me?
Who expands me?
What kinds of choices?
And when we start
noticing not good or bad,
but is this expansive for me?
Is this contracting me, then we
start adjusting in each moment.
So we're doing
things that are going
to expand our energy
and our vibration,
as opposed to
contract them, just
beginning to understand
that, reading
about it through the techniques,
we can shift in a second.
Right now, if I said
everybody, think
about someone you love, a
beautiful place in the world,
notice how your body's
feeling, you're relaxed,
your breathing settles
down, you're expanding--
>>LISA: You're happy.
>>DEANGELIS: Think about
somebody you're frightened of.
Think about something
you haven't done.
And you can feel [WHOOSH].
So everything is having
that effect on us.
To look at our life
in terms of, am I
doing things that are
expanding my energy, creating
a shift in my vibration?
Or am I holding onto things
that are not doing that?
And you mentioned
before authenticity.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>DEANGELIS: And one of those
phrases that I've come up with
and I teach people is
vibrational credibility.
One of my favorite
phrases in the.
Book vibrational credibility.
That what you're saying and
the vibration are matching.
So it's not behavior.
It's that when somebody's
talking about love,
you're feeling love.
When somebody is
talking about hope,
you're not telling their fear.
I say when you show
up, who shows up?
Not what you're telling people.
Not the words.
Words are wrapping
paper for our vibration.
That's all they are.
But it's the vibration
that gets people.
And you know this.
5%, 7% of what we
say, people here.
>>LISA: Yes
>>DEANGELIS: Like, most people
have glazed over everything
we've been saying, but they're
getting a vibration, hopefully
of hope, of excitement,
of feeling I'm not alone.
Most people work on their
words, their presentation.
If you don't shift
your vibration,
you can't sustain it.
So vibrational credibility
means that you're not wobbly.
And we see people all the
time in the public eye talking
about this, standing for this.
They're so wobbly, that
then their life falls apart,
because they're not living it.
And again, I'm not
talking about choices.
I'm talking about
inside, so that you
are vibrating everything
that you're believing.
Does that happen overnight?
No.
>>LISA: Right.
It takes work.
That's exactly right.
And experience.
>>DEANGELIS: But
what we here for,
but to polish that diamond?
Vibrational credibility
will get you
more in life than anything else.
>>LISA: That is a great point.
>>DEANGELIS: Because
people will trust you.
They'll want to invest in you.
It's not just I say, very
impressive, or she's pretty,
or that was a good proposal.
>>LISA: To be true to
who you are, it's--
>>DEANGELIS: They'll
feel that you are that.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>DEANGELIS: You
can't fake that.
>>LISA: Right.
>>DEANGELIS: And you can't
do that at the last minute.
>>LISA: Right.
>>DEANGELIS: You
can't suddenly go OK--
>>LISA: And you don't have
to prepare for it either.
>>DEANGELIS: You
can't prepare for it.
You can't say, OK, I got to
be vibrationally credible.
Forget it.
You can't.
You have to just be that way.
>>LISA: It's a
good start, though.
>>DEANGELIS: You
can being that way,
but it's not about
how you're acting.
If you say, I'm going
to be really loving
right now, forget it.
>>LISA: No.
It has to be who you are being.
>>DEANGELIS: It's the
culmination of choice
after choice after choice.
Before you know it, you have
shifted into a different way
of vibrating.
And that soundtrack that
used to be all mish moshy,
and have strange things going
on, is now the most uplifting,
positive, , inspiring music.
It's a soul symphony.
>>LISA: And you feel good.
>>DEANGELIS: You feel good, and
people want to listen to it.
Because the truth
is people are always
listening to the
sound of our soul.
>>LISA: Wow.
Well, take a look
at this video here
where Barbara talks
about waking up.
And yes, we are all alive.
We are all awake.
Take a look at this.
>>DEANGELIS: All over
the world right now,
there are people
sleeping, walking
through their lives asleep.
There are people who
will never wake up.
came here to this planet
and don't remember why.
And have spent their
whole lives trying
to remember, what's
wrong, what is missing,
what am I doing here?
All over the world, there
are people suffering,
with no hope of understanding
the secret for freedom that's
inside.
You, my dear ones, are awake.
>>AUDIENCE: [CHEERING]
>>DEANGELIS: You, my dear
ones, have chosen to wake up.
And I honor you for that choice.
And the world honors
you for that choice.
Because in our waking up,
we are waking up the planet.
We are waking up hearts.
We are waking up souls.
Wakefulness, in this moment,
on this sacred mountain,
with this ancient
land that we are upon,
we come together to awaken.
We come together to awaken
fully, not partially.
Yes, fully.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>DEANGELIS: We come together
to remember why we are here,
why you are here,
why you have chosen
to come right now, at
this time, on this earth.
We come together on this
mountain today for love.
For the reminder of this moment.
It is only in this moment
that joy can be found.
Not when you make $10 million.
Not when you find
your soul mate.
Not when your life
looks perfect.
Not when you lose the weight
you think you need to lose.
Not when the things happen that
you think will make you happy.
Happiness is not an acquisition.
It's a skill.
If you can't right now sitting
on this beautiful mountain
among your loved ones
in this divine reunion
that we are a part of, if you
can't feel happy right now,
no matter what else is
going on in your life,
when you get that stuff, you
will just have more stuff,
and still be unhappy.
>>AUDIENCE: [APPLAUSE]
>>DEANGELIS: So
this is the moment.
While I transmit to you, while
you sit here with each other,
while you look at the beautiful
clouds, Mother Nature who
has so cooperated with us
to bless us with the most
magnificent display, as if she
dressed up in her best, best,
best because she knew Seminar of
the Century was coming, to say
thank you.
Thank you for bringing
blessings to my mountain.
love to the planet.
Thank you for
bringing remembrance.
With all of that in
this moment right now,
breathe in happiness.
Breathe in happiness.
You are alive.
You are here.
>>GARR: You have such a
way of presenting in such--
you are your motivation.
You are motivation.
You don't have to speak
and motivate people.
Who you're being
is so motivating,
it's a great example of what
you're talking about in terms
of vibrational credibility.
When you speak on stage, you
inspire and motivate people.
You have a gift there.
It's beautiful.
It comes out.
How do we learn to do this?
And I know that you
said you can't learn it.
But in a vibrational context,
how do we become that?
>>DEANGELIS: You know,
you just said to inspire.
And of course, the word
contains "in spirit."
When we're connected
to our on authenticity
in that moment, whatever it is,
it could be that we're nervous,
it could be that were very
emotional about something.
In that moment,
we're in alignment.
A better speaker
would be somebody
who's there, and is nervous,
and is talking about what
it was like to be
there, as opposed
to the person who has
practiced it so much,
and it's perfectly polished,
but they're not even present.
So when any of us are
connected to spirit--
and I'm not talking
about spirit,
I'm talking about spirit-- our
own essence, our own heart,
we will be authentic
in that moment.
That's why we love children.
Because kids can
be so inarticulate.
They can't even
speak English yet.
But in one minute,
they'll say something,
and there's so much joy in
it, and so much aliveness,
that we just have
to stare at the.
If there was child
here, no one would
be listening to either of us.
>>GARR: Right.
Right.
>>DEANGELIS: They'd
be just staring
at the child going, hey.
And that's because they're
still connected to spirit.
>>GARR: And it's so
beautiful to watch.
Yes.
>>DEANGELIS: Every
question you've
asked me has the same answer.
How do we do this?
Connect back inside.
How do we open up
ourselves to not
being upset by what's going on?
Finding that inner anchor.
It's finding that place
inside of us moment by moment.
Really being conscious
of what we're doing,
so that we can make the
highest inner choice.
Soul shifts are
invisible, inner shifts
in attitude or understanding
that no one else can see.
But because they're
shifting us on the inside,
everything shifts
on the outside.
And again, this is physics.
You change things at the atomic
level, everything changes
on the outside.
So we go to the finest place.
And I say our responsibility
as planetary transformers
is to rebirth ourselves
over and over again.
>>GARR: It happens.
>>DEANGELIS: To truly say,
I am not done growing.
That I need to be the most
enlightened, the most awakened
person I can be.
>>GARR: What's the difference
between this and wisdom,
Barbara?
>>DEANGELIS: Wisdom
is knowingness.
The difference between
information and wisdom
is something really important
for people to understand.
Because a lot of us collect
information about ourselves,
about life.
But that's not wisdom.
Wisdom comes from an alchemy
of information and experience.
So that you're not
just saying, oh, yes,
and we're all positive energy.
>>GARR: You've had experience.
>>DEANGELIS: It's
coming from knowingness.
Knowingness is a beautiful word.
It's knowing something
in the deepest
place, where you're not
accessing it actually
from here.
You're actually
accessing it from here.
And one of my meditations
that I offer in my website
is, how to find the
knowingness in your heart.
We all have it.
We just get confused
by our minds.
So, wisdom comes from
constantly coming back
to your own
knowingness, and having
it be a grounded reality.
>>GARR: Is that different
than a soul shift?
It sounds like it is.
>>DEANGELIS: It's the
result of many soul shifts.
>>GARR: Oh, OK.
>>DEANGELIS: You see,
wisdom isn't an action.
It's an effect.
You can't do wisdom.
>>GARR: But you can't
do soul shift either.
>>DEANGELIS: Yes, you can.
In two seconds.
You can make a soul
shift at any moment.
By all the things we
just talked about.
>>GARR: Oh, OK.
I see.
>>DEANGELIS: I do
them on my radio
show for people all the
time, in two seconds.
Because they're shifting to the
soul level, the higher level,
instead of-- as I
said, what choice
am I making in this moment?
How do I bring love
to this situation?
There's so many questions I
ask in all of the soul shifts.
Instead of going into something
saying what can I get from you,
what can I give to you,
they shift our vibration,
so that we're actually like
interacting differently
energetically.
You can feel it.
>>GARR: So take an
example of relationships.
The couple, money is a main
problem in relationships.
Right?
They tend to fight
a lot about money.
>>DEANGELIS: Well, actually,
in my earlier books--
the real issue in
relationship is power.
Power struggles.
And the way those power
struggles manifest
is money, sex, children, family.
And we fight about those
things, but we're really
fighting about power struggle.
About do I feel I'm getting
what I want from you.
Do you feel you're getting
what you want from me.
You can fight about who
unloaded the dishwasher
the right way or about money.
If you're not acting in
harmony and in oneness,
you can fight about anything.
You can fight about what
you're fighting about.
You can fight about
who started the fight.
Then you can fight about
who's continuing the fight.
And we all know that.
But we're never fighting for
the reasons we think we are.
>>GARR: Good point.
Great point.
And then, how can you do
a soul shift that can help
you end the power struggle?
>>DEANGELIS: If we're struggling
to feel we're in control,
it's because we're
feeling out of control.
We are never going to get
that by feeling control
over somebody else.
Again, same answer, inner power.
>>GARR: Inner power.
>>DEANGELIS: People who
need to be always in control
and have power over others
who are terrified people.
They don't feel powerful.
>>GARR: That's true.
>>DEANGELIS: People who feel
they need to have approval
all the time don't have it.
I love when people
are happy with me.
I love when people buy my book.
I love when the book is
doing well like it is now,
but I don't need it to
know it's a brilliant book.
>>GARR: Or to know who you are.
>>DEANGELIS: I don't need it
to feel good about myself.
I like it.
But it's different
from needing it.
I give it to myself
all the time.
Most of us are very love
starved from within.
We don't know how
to actually have
that dynamic intimate
relationship with ourselves,
which I also talk a lot about.
It's so important to do that.
Otherwise, we're
going to be starved
looking for emotional
handouts all the time.
>>GARR: From others.
>>DEANGELIS: From
everybody else.
>>GARR: What does giving
yourself self love mean?
What is giving yourself
love look like?
>>DEANGELIS: It
means, number one,
noticing all the ways we
don't love ourselves first.
It means noticing the I'll
love myself when list.
I'll love myself when
I'm the perfect weight.
I have this much money.
And then getting harder.
I'll love myself when
my kids are doing well.
I'll love myself when my
husband's in a good mood.
Now, we're completely
out of control,
because they're things
we can't control.
And the truth is loving
ourself conditionally
based on what other people do
or what happens is a dead end.
I love myself because I
know I am a being of light,
and I'm going to do everything
I can to make choices
from my highest.
So today, I shifted myself
into love over and over again.
I pushed through
whatever it was.
I honored myself for that.
And that's what I
talk about, is really
seeing things not as burdens
in life, but as blessings.
How to really turn
the things even
we see about ourselves
into blessing.
>>GARR: Into soul shifts.
>>DEANGELIS: Into soul shifts.
>>GARR: All right.
So I invite you to take a
look at this next video.
Barbara takes us through
a beautiful visualization
process.
So just sit back, relax.
It's a nice long process where
you can go into a journey.
There's beautiful visuals
that go along with it.
But I wanted you to take
this experience for yourself,
and have a soul shift
from this experience.
Take a look.
>>DEANGELIS: Finding the
knowingness in your heart.
Allow yourself to become very
quiet and close your eyes.
And imagine as you close your
eyes that you're standing
in front of an elevator.
And that elevator can
take you from your head,
your mind, down to your heart.
Visualize yourself
right now standing
in front of your forehead,
just pushing a button,
and imagining your
forehead opening as you
step into it like an elevator,
stepping into your thoughts,
stepping into your brain.
And you can see a panel in front
of you with glowing lights.
All the different floors
of your consciousness.
And at the bottom is a beautiful
red, glowing heart light.
Push that light
with your finger.
Take your finger in
front of you and imagine
pushing the red heart light.
And now, feel your
awareness settling down
from your forehead, down
your face, down your throat,
down into your chest
where your heart is.
You can feel the elevator stop.
The doors open.
Visualize yourself walking out
into a beautiful space filled
with shimmering light.
Filled with shimmering love.
The heart space.
Walk out into that space
and feel instantly expanded.
Feel yourself melting into
the space of the heart.
In that heart space,
there is knowingness.
Knowingness is not the
same as information.
It is your wisdom,
your knowingness.
Imagine yourself in
that space of the heart.
You can even place a hand gently
over your heart on your body.
You don't even
have to understand
what knowingness means.
Your heart just knows.
Your heart knows
if you're troubled.
Your heart knows when you
are frightened, even if you
tell yourself it's no big deal.
Your heart knows when you
are longing for something,
even when you tell yourself
you don't need anything.
Your heart knows
when you need help,
even when you tell
yourself you're fine.
And your heart
knows when there is
healing going on in
the heart, healing
so that you can be more free,
more powerful, more loving.
Healing is clearing away
the dust and cobwebs
in your consciousness.
In this moment, with your
hand over your heart,
take a deep breath.
Breathe into the heart space.
Breathe into your
own knowingness.
And whisper to yourself,
my heart knows.
My heart knows.
Fill up with the
peace that brings you.
Thank your heart
for guiding you.
Thank your heart for
allowing its knowingness
to penetrate your doubts, your
fears, to help light your way.
Thank you, heart,
for it's devotion
to you and your freedom.
Thank your heart for
not letting you forget
your purpose and your path.
Again, whisper to
yourself, my heart knows.
My heart knows.
Smile, and feel what
joy that brings you.
Take a few moments just
to be with the knowingness
in your heart.
Once more, thank your
heart for its knowingness.
it is always there to serve
you if you just become still
and listen.
Take another big, deep
breath, feeling so much more
connected to your heart.
>>GARR: That was very,
very beautiful and helpful
for people to be able to watch
that over and over again.
They can watch a replay and
go through that journey.
Especially to have
that enlightenment.
So I just want to thank
you for joining me here
in Denver, Colorado.
We're at the Hay
House Conference,
and you're speaking tomorrow.
And it's just going to be
soul shifting experience.
Thank you so much, Barbara.
>>DEANGELIS: It's always
soul shifting being with you.
And I hope people have had
shifts even just sitting here,
and that they honor
them, and realize
there's nothing missing.
They have everything
they need inside already.
>>GARR: That's great.
Thank you.
>>DEANGELIS: Thank you.
>>GARR: And thank you so much.
And if you'd like
to watch the replay,
you can go to gaiamtv.com.
And until next time, I
invite you to stay inspired.
[MUSIC PLAYING]